timestamp 0: in this video we're gonna look at what
timestamp 2: data mining is and we're gonna introduce
timestamp 4: some fundamental concepts we need to
timestamp 6: understand how it works
timestamp 8: informally you can think of data mining
timestamp 10: as the process of using a computer
timestamp 12: program an algorithm to find patterns or
timestamp 16: relationships in your data for example
timestamp 19: you might want to be looking for what
timestamp 20: combinations of symptoms will allow you
timestamp 23: to reliably diagnose a patient another
timestamp 26: example of data mining if you are
timestamp 28: someone who is running a store you might
timestamp 31: want to know what types of products
timestamp 33: customers tend to purchase together at
timestamp 36: the heart of the data mining process is
timestamp 38: some type of machine learning in which
timestamp 41: we apply an algorithm it learns
timestamp 43: something about the data and these are
timestamp 46: called machine learning algorithms
timestamp 48: ultimately we're going to look at three
timestamp 50: different types of machine learning in
timestamp 52: this class but for now we're primarily
timestamp 54: going to focus on classification
timestamp 56: learning so in classification learning
timestamp 59: we're trying to figure out how to
timestamp 62: classify objects or entities on the
timestamp 66: basis of their characteristics so maybe
timestamp 69: you know a bunch of information about a
timestamp 71: customer of your store or potential
timestamp 75: customer and you're wondering whether
timestamp 77: that customer is likely to buy a
timestamp 78: computer in the course of the next year
timestamp 81: you just want to be able to have a
timestamp 83: pretty good idea yes they are going to
timestamp 85: buy it no they are not going to buy it
timestamp 87: and so what you need to do in order to
timestamp 90: perform classification learning is you
timestamp 93: need to have what is called training
timestamp 95: data a set of training examples where
timestamp 99: each example is a single customer in
timestamp 102: this case and we have a bunch of
timestamp 104: information about the customer we have
timestamp 106: the customers ID agender the age whether
timestamp 111: the customer is a student what the
timestamp 114: customers credit rating is good fair
timestamp 117: excellent
timestamp 119: and then this is the important part we
timestamp 121: already have classified each of these
timestamp 124: examples we already know whether the
timestamp 127: customer bought a computer or not
timestamp 131: and the idea then is that the algorithm
timestamp 133: is going to take this training data and
timestamp 135: produce a model of some type that we can
timestamp 139: then use to classify new examples to
timestamp 143: predict in this case whether a new
timestamp 145: customer will buy a computer in the next
timestamp 149: year one possible model you could learn
timestamp 152: from these training examples and by the
timestamp 154: way I've only shown you five customers
timestamp 156: you want as much training data as you
timestamp 158: possibly can get but one possible model
timestamp 161: that might be produced is what is known
timestamp 163: as a decision tree and this is based on
timestamp 167: our training data the actual process of
timestamp 169: finding the tree determining the treaty
timestamp 172: is something we're going to get into
timestamp 173: later but once we have learned the model
timestamp 176: from the training data we're then able
timestamp 178: to use it to classify new examples so
timestamp 181: here I have two new customers I know the
timestamp 184: same information about them as before
timestamp 186: except I do not yet have a
timestamp 189: classification for them I don't know
timestamp 191: whether they're going to buy a computer
timestamp 192: and that's what I want to be able to
timestamp 194: predict so to apply my decision tree I'm
timestamp 197: going to start at the top and work my
timestamp 200: way down so if we focus first on the
timestamp 203: first customer ID 333 you can see we're
timestamp 207: being told to look first at her age and
timestamp 209: you can see that she's 68 and as a
timestamp 212: result we're going to go down the branch
timestamp 215: that is labeled greater than 65 because
timestamp 219: her age is greater than 65 we go down
timestamp 222: that branch that brings us to the next
timestamp 224: thing that we should look at which is
timestamp 226: her credit rating and because her credit
timestamp 229: rating is fair we're going to go down
timestamp 231: that branch and that brings us to a box
timestamp 234: with a classification and in this case
timestamp 237: that box tells us that no we should not
timestamp 240: expect her to buy a computer that's our
timestamp 243: prediction for that customer let's go to
timestamp 246: our next customer we again start at the
timestamp 249: top this customer's age is 23 so we go
timestamp 252: down this branch which is the less than
timestamp 254: 35 branch by the way notice there's a
timestamp 257: middle branch here for customers whose
timestamp 259: ages are between 35 and 65 but in this
timestamp 262: case we're going down this branch
timestamp 264: that then tells us to look next at
timestamp 267: whether the customer is a student and in
timestamp 270: this case the customer is a student so
timestamp 273: we go down the yes branch and that
timestamp 275: brings us to our classification for that
timestamp 277: customer which is yes we predict that he
timestamp 281: will buy a computer in the next year now
timestamp 284: when we're talking about our training
timestamp 285: data every row is referred to as an
timestamp 287: example or an instance every column is
timestamp 291: referred to as an attribute and we can
timestamp 294: divide up those attributes into two
timestamp 296: types the output attribute is the one
timestamp 298: that we're trying to be able to predict
timestamp 301: that's our classification column
timestamp 303: everything else is an input attribute
timestamp 306: the model that we learn takes the values
timestamp 309: of the input attributes and gives us a
timestamp 312: value for the output attribute in the
timestamp 314: case of our decision tree it took the
timestamp 317: values of the age student and credit
timestamp 319: rating columns and it gave us a
timestamp 322: prediction for whether the user would
timestamp 323: buy a computer my computer was our
timestamp 326: output now another way to distinguish
timestamp 329: between the attributes is on whether
timestamp 331: they are nominal or numeric nominal
timestamp 335: attributes have values that are
timestamp 337: essentially names of categories in this
timestamp 340: case most of the attributes are nominal
timestamp 343: gender student credit rating and buying
timestamp 347: computer numeric attributes as you might
timestamp 349: expect have values that are numbers but
timestamp 353: what's especially important here is it
timestamp 354: has to make sense to compare those
timestamp 356: numbers using greater than and less net
timestamp 360: so for example in our model we were
timestamp 363: basing our predictions in part on things
timestamp 366: like was the age less than 35 and that
timestamp 370: kind of comparison makes sense because
timestamp 371: it does make sense to say whether
timestamp 374: someone is less than 35 and that might
timestamp 376: have an impact on your predictions but
timestamp 379: for something like ID even though the
timestamp 382: values are numbers that's not truly
timestamp 385: numeric because it wouldn't make sense
timestamp 387: to base your prediction on something
timestamp 389: like whether the ID was less than 300 it
timestamp 392: doesn't give us useful information about
timestamp 394: the person in order for us to apply
timestamp 397: classification
timestamp 398: learning we have to have a single output
timestamp 400: attribute whose value we're trying to
timestamp 403: determine so in our case we did and then
timestamp 406: the other thing that made this
timestamp 407: classification learning is that that
timestamp 409: single output attribute is nominal for
timestamp 412: classification learning that has to be
timestamp 415: the case the thing you're trying to
timestamp 416: predict has to be a nominal attribute
timestamp 419: and the input attributes can be either
timestamp 422: nominal or numeric there's no
timestamp 423: restriction there now let's imagine we
timestamp 426: change the problem so instead of
timestamp 428: predicting yes or no we're trying to
timestamp 430: predict a probability that the computer
timestamp 432: will be bought by the customer in the
timestamp 434: next year well now our output attribute
timestamp 437: is numeric and therefore it can't be
timestamp 440: classification learning anymore instead
timestamp 442: it's now numeric estimation and this has
timestamp 445: a completely different set of algorithms
timestamp 447: and it produces different types of
timestamp 449: models and we'll talk more about this
timestamp 452: later on it's worth noting that here
timestamp 454: again the input attributes can be either
timestamp 456: nominal or numeric what matters is that
timestamp 459: the output attribute is numeric and if
timestamp 462: it is you have to do in America
timestamp 464: estimation instead of classification
timestamp 466: learning
